[Music]
it's time to start designing for our
ears architects and designers tend to
focus exclusively on these they use
these to design with and they designed
for them which is why we end up sitting
in restaurants that look like this while
we get on airplanes we're designing
environments that make us crazy and it's
not just our quality of life which
suffers it's our health our social
behavior and our productivity as well
how does this work well two ways first
of all ambience I have a whole TED talk
about this sound affects us
physiologically psychologically
cognitively and behaviorally all the
time the sound around us is affecting us
even though we're not conscious of it
there's a second way though as well
that's interference communication
requires sending and receiving and I
have another whole TED talk about the
importance of conscious listening but I
can send as well as I like and you can
be brilliant conscious listeners if the
space I'm sending in is not effective
that communication can't happen spaces
tend to include noise and acoustics a
room like this has acoustics this one
very good acoustics many rooms are not
so good let me give you some examples
from a couple of areas which I think we
all care about health and education when
I was visiting my terminally ill father
in hospital I was asking myself how does
anybody get well in a
place it sounds like this hospital sound
is getting worse all the time
noise levels in hospitals have doubled
in the last few years and it affects not
just the patients but also the people
working there I think we would like for
dispensing errors to be zero wouldn't we
and yet as noise levels go up so do the
errors in dispensing made by the staff
in hospitals most of all though it
affects the patient and that could be
you it could be me recovers when we
regenerate when we rebuild ourselves and
with threatening noise like this going
on your body even if you are able to
sleep your body is telling you I'm under
threat this is dangerous
and the quality of sleep is degraded and
so is our recovery there are just huge
benefits to come from designing for the
ears
in our healthcare this is an area I
intend to take on this year education
when I see a classroom that looks like
this can you imagine how this sounds I'm
forced to ask myself a question now
that's a little unfair some of my best
friends are architects and they
definitely do have ears but I think
sometimes they don't use them when
they're designing buildings here's a
case in point this is a thirty two
million pound flagship Academy School
which was built quite recently in the UK
and designed by one of Britain's top
architects unfortunately it was designed
like a corporate headquarters with a
vast central atrium and classrooms
leading off it with no back walls at all
the children couldn't hear their
teachers they had to go back in and
spend six hundred thousand pounds
putting the walls in let's stop this
madness of open-plan classrooms right
now please it's not just these modern
buildings which suffer old-fashioned
classrooms suffer - a study in Florida
just a few years ago found that if
you're sitting where this photograph was
taken in the classroom row for speech
intelligibility is just 50% children are
losing one word in - now that doesn't
mean they only get half their education
but it does mean they have to work very
hard to join the dots and understand
what's going on this is affected
massively by reverberation time
reverberant of room is in a classroom
with a reverberation time of 1.2 seconds
which is pretty common this is what it
sounds like
[Music]
not so good is it if you take that 1.2
seconds down to naught point 4 seconds
by installing acoustic treatment sound
absorbing materials and so forth this is
what you get in language infinitely many
words can be written with a small set of
letters in arithmetic infinitely many
numbers can be composed from just a few
digits with the help of the simple zero
what a difference
now that education you would receive and
thanks to the British IQ station adrian
james for those simulations the signal
was the same the background noise was
the same all that changed was the
acoustics of the classroom in those two
examples if education can be likened to
watering a garden which i think now this
affair metaphor sadly much of the water
is evaporating before it reaches the
flowers especially for some groups for
example those with hearing impairment
now that's not just deaf children that
could be any child who's got a cold glue
ear an ear infection even hay fever on a
given day one in eight children fall
into that group on any given day then
you have children for whom English is a
second language or whatever they're
being taught in is a second language in
the UK that's more than 10% of the
school population and finally after
Susan Cain's wonderful TED talk in
February we know that introverts find it
very difficult to relate when they're in
a noisy environment doing group work add
those up that is a lot of children who
are not receiving their education
properly it's not just the children who
are affected though this study in
Germany found the average noise level in
classrooms is 65 decibels
I really raised my voice to talk over 65
decibels of sound and teachers are not
just raising their voices this chart
maps the teachers heart rate against the
noise level noise goes up heart rate
goes up that is not good for you in fact
65 decibels is the very level at which
this big survey of all the evidence on
noise and health found that that is the
threshold for the danger of myocardial
infarction to you and me that's a heart
attack it may will not be pushing the
boat out too far to suggest that many
teachers are losing significant life
expectancy by teaching in environments
like that day after day what does it
cost to treat a classroom down to that
nought point four second reverberation
time two and a half thousand pounds and
the Essex study which has just been done
in the UK which incidentally showed that
when you do this you do not just make a
room that's suitable for
hearing-impaired children you make a
room where behavior improves and results
improve significantly this found that
sending a child out of area to a school
that does have such a room if you don't
have one costs ninety thousand pounds a
year I think the economics are pretty
clear on this I'm glad that debate is
happening on this I just moderated a
major conference in London a few weeks
ago called sound education which brought
together top acousticians government
people teachers and so forth we're at
last starting to debate this issue and
the benefits that are available for
designing for the ears in education
unbelievable out of that conference
since incidentally also came a free app
which is designed to help children study
if they're having to work at home for
example in a noisy kitchen and that's
that's free out of that conference let's
broaden the perspective a little bit and
look at cities we have urban planners
where are the urban sound planners I
don't know of one in the world and the
opportunity is there to transform our
experience in our cities the World
Health Organization estimates that a
quarter of Europe's population is having
its sleep degraded by noise in
jeez we can do better than that and in
our offices we spend a lot of time at
work where are the office sound planners
people who say don't sit that team next
to this team because they like noise and
they need quiet or who say don't spend
all your budget on a huge screen in the
conference room and then place one tiny
microphone in the middle of a table for
30 people if you can hear me you can
understand me without seeing me if you
can see me without hearing me that does
not work so office sound is a huge area
and incidentally noise at offices has
been shown to make people less helpful
let's enjoy their teamwork and less
productive at work finally we have homes
we use interior designers where are the
interior sound designers ok let's all be
interior sound designers take on
listening to our rooms and designing
sound that's effective and appropriate
my friend Richard mizuka an architect in
London coined the phrase
invisible architecture I love that
phrase it's about designing not
appearance but experience so that we
have spaces that sound as good as they
look that are fit for purpose that
improve our quality of life our health
and well-being our social behavior and
our productivity it's time to start
designing for the ears thank you
[Applause]
you